Welcome to the Life Church Podcast.
We are in Acts 2 4 to 2 community, a family on a mission to bring a life of Jesus to warranty.
We hope you're ready to hear what God has to say to you today through His Word and by His Spirit.
So yeah, so we're talking about the Book of Romans, and we're doing a series, four weeks series on the Roman road, and it's about salvation, which is
I don't know about you, but Romans for me always feels big.
And you read it and you're like, oh, the words are a little bit challenging.
And preparing for a sermon in Romans is no less big and no less challenging.
So yes, so as Nick has already said, what I like to do before I start is to pray because really it's what the Lord has to say.
So yeah, thank you Lord Jesus for
the book of Romans, thank you for Paul, through whom you gave this message.
And I pray, Lord, that you would quicken this word to our spirits this morning.
Would you help us understand you better?
Help us understand ourselves better?
And Lord Jesus, would you do the work that you need to do in every single heart, including mine?
And I pray that you would really be with us now.
as we seek to listen to you in your mighty name of Jesus.
Amen.
So I've got the wonderful title of Christ died for us.
Now, I don't know if you come across the Bible project, they do great stuff and I really enjoy their things, but they say that the Bible is a unified story that points to Jesus.
And so this subject, Christ died for us.
is basically what the Bible is all about.
So it's free rein for me to talk about the whole Bible, which makes me excited because I love the Scriptures.
And the more time I spend in the Bible, the more I just, it's amazing.
It is just amazing.
The layers and the depths of meaning.
And so,
I'm going to unapologetically read loads of scripture to you today.
So please bear with me.
I know that the best thing for public speaking is eye contact, because then you all feel like I've connected with you.
But when I'm reading, that's a bit challenging.
So please don't lose your concentration.
I want you to feel connected, not only to me, but to the Lord Jesus who's got something to say.
So I'm going to read.
Romans 4 verse 20, and I'm gonna read across a chapter barrier.
Scandal.
We usually stop at the end of a chapter, but I think it's important that we understand how the flow of the letter works.
So, turn with me to Romans 4, and we're gonna read from verse 20.
Yet he, who is Abraham, did not waver through unbelief regarding the promise of God, but was strengthened in his faith
and gave glory to God, being fully persuaded that God had power to do what he had promised.
This is why it was credited to him as righteousness.
The words it was credited to him were written not for him alone, but also for us, to whom God will credit righteousness, for us who believe in him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead.
He was delivered over to death
for our sins and was raised to life for our justification.
Therefore, since we have been justified through faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have gained access by faith into this grace in which we now stand.
And we boast in the hope of the glory of God,
Not only so, but we also glory in our sufferings because we know that suffering produces perseverance, perseverance character and character hope.
And hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured out into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.
You see, at just the right time, when we were still powerless,
Christ died for the ungodly.
Very rarely will anyone die for a righteous person, though for a good person someone might dare to die.
But God demonstrates his love for us in this.
While we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
Since we have now been justified by his blood, how much more shall we be saved from God's wrath through him?
For if, while we were still God's enemies, we were reconciled to him through the death of his son, how much more having been reconciled shall we be saved through his life?
Not only is this so, but we also boast in God through our Lord Jesus Christ,
through whom we have received reconciliation.
I might as well just pack up and go home now.
It's just good stuff.
It's so incredible.
The whole reason Jesus came and the whole reason you're sitting here right now is this.
that God, because God loved us, he sent his son to die for us while we were still sinners.
So I'm just gonna look at one little verse in the middle of all that.
And it's this, but God demonstrated his own love for us in this while we were still sinners, Christ died for us, Romans five verse eight.
So three points, three ideas.
God's love for us, that we were sinners, and that Christ died.
So they are classic three-point sermon.
We'll be out of here in no time.
But the thing is about this, it's so fundamental to us as Christians.
This is the fundamental truth that should pivot your life
Everything should be based on this and changed by this and transformed by this.
So while we're talking about these three things, I want you to think about life's big questions.
How do I see myself?
Who am I?
How do we relate to God?
And how do we live day by day?
Because if this doesn't change your life, nothing will.
So let's dive in.
God's love.
That's amazing.
Bernie stood up and read a verse that I had deleted from my notes because I was like, I just don't have time to read it.
Thank you, Bernie.
So I'm gonna read one John four verse nine.
Sorry, it started a bit earlier than seven.
Seven to 10 and also verse 16.
Dear friends, let us continue to love one another.
For love comes from God.
Anyone who loves is a child of God and knows God.
Anyone who does not love does not know God, for God is love.
God showed how much he loved us by sending his one and only son into the world so that we might have eternal life through him.
This is real love, not that we've loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son as a sacrifice to take away our sins.
We know how much God loves us and we have put our trust in his love.
God is love and all who live in love live in God and God lives in them.
So love is fundamental to who God is.
We only know anything about love because God is love.
And that's the starting point.
the very nature and essence of God is love.
So everything he does comes from there.
Now there's a line in the notes that was sent to us in preparation that says, we live in a society that sentimentalizes love and trivializes justice.
And that really just sort of, I had to chew on that for a while.
I think that's true.
I think we live in a society
where love is sentimental.
And sentimental not in a good way, you know?
We've just had Valentine's Day, so there's been a lot of sentimental love in this weekend.
You know, soppy cards, stuffed toys.
I love you, I'm gonna give you a teddy.
Yeah, you can tell I really don't like Valentine's Day.
Not at all.
So Gary and I, we don't really celebrate Valentine's Day, but what we did last yesterday is, yeah, it's kind of Valentine's Day.
It's kind of contagious, because it's everywhere, and you're like, oh, let's do something love-like.
And so we had a love feast.
I thought, why not?
We'll label it a love feast, and then just eat the food we like.
Talk about sentimental love.
There we are.
I'm cutting heart-shaped tortillas to make pizza, because John wants to do that.
really sentimental.
But then he says something to me.
And now he's six, right?
So what depth of theology does a six-year-old?
And you probably won't be surprised because he's my son.
But he says to me, this is like when they cut Jesus' body, we'll cut the pizza and share the body of Jesus.
And I'm like, where did you come from?
What have I created?
But there was something so fundamentally profound about that.
out of the master babes.
What is love about?
What is real love?
It's that Jesus, his body was broken for us.
And we share that and we partake of that.
God is love.
And the thing is, God is a father.
And so I have two boys and parenting is a challenge and quite
quite an interesting experience.
Before I was a parent, I thought I knew a lot about kids and about how life should be.
And yeah, you're laughing, Dale, because that's right.
I was wrong.
But the thing is, when one of my boys is hurting the other one, you have to intervene.
You can't let that continue.
We were talking yesterday, and Gary said something, that a selfish
And lazy father lets it happen for the easy life.
Don't want the conflict.
But if a father really loves his children, he sorts it out.
And sorting it out means bringing both correction and comfort.
You cuddle the one who's hurt, and you punish the one who did the wrong.
justice and kindness, they're all love.
And without one, you make love sentimental.
And without the other one, justice is trivial.
And you see this, there's a story in the Old Testament about Noah.
And it's really, yeah,
God created this wonderful world.
He created people who were made in His image.
And all of that was out of love.
He loved to create.
He loved the things He created.
And He loved to spend time with them.
And then they turned away.
They didn't trust what He told them.
and they found themselves on a trajectory towards death.
And not long after that, Genesis 6, verse 5 to 9, the Lord observed the extent of the human wickedness on the earth and saw that everything they thought or imagined was consistently and totally evil.
There's the little brothers and they're killing each other.
So the Lord was sorry.
He had made them and put them on earth.
It broke his heart.
And the Lord said, I will wipe this human race I have created from the face of the earth.
Yes, and I will destroy every living thing.
All the people, the large animals, the small animals that scurry along the ground, even the birds of the sky.
I'm sorry I ever made them.
And then there's a word that when you see it in the Bible, you get excited.
But, but Noah found favor with the Lord.
This is the account of Noah and his family.
Noah was a righteous man, the only blameless person living on the earth at the time.
and he walked in close fellowship with God.
Now Abraham, when he was talking to God about Sodom and Gomorrah said, oh, but if you find 10, will you stop?
Noah, he was just one.
And God loved his creation so much that he was willing
to create a rescue plan using just this one guy and an ark.
And that foreshadows what Jesus is for us.
He's the rescue plan.
To save us from the wrath, the justice that we all deserve.
So God loves us.
There's a verse in
Jeremiah 31.
I think we got it up there.
Now Jeremiah was a prophet just before the nation of Israel were taken into exile to Babylon.
And Jeremiah itself has a whole book is quite hard to read because it's all about how they've messed up.
But there are these little fragments.
And Jeremiah 31 is the looking into the future.
The punishment won't last forever.
God will bring them back.
And he says this in verse three, the Lord appeared to us in the past saying, I have loved you with an everlasting love.
I have drawn you with unfailing kindness.
And then he talks about all the wonderful things he's going to do for them.
But the thing is most of the prophets of this time understood that
The problem with us as humans wasn't about following rules.
There was something deep within us that we needed a heart change.
And he says, I will put my law, sorry, this is the covenant I will make with the people of Israel at that time, declares the Lord.
I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts.
I will be their God.
And they will be my people.
No longer will they teach their neighbor or say to one another, know the Lord, because they will all know me.
From the least of them to the greatest declares the Lord, for I will forgive their wickedness and remember their sins no more.
And that is the great promise we hold on to.
So let's look at the state of our hearts.
Oh, sorry.
I put this in this morning because I saw it in the middle of this chapter.
I was like, oh, here it is.
It's exactly what I wanted to say.
So verse 20 says, is not Israel still my son, my darling child, says the Lord?
I often have to punish him, but I still love him.
That's why I long for him.
And surely we'll have mercy on him.
That's the one I should have put up on the screen, shouldn't it?
So yes, let's look at our hearts.
So the problem with a human heart is sin.
Now Jeremy talked about this last week.
The wages of sin is death.
Sin is the root of all ills.
It brings destruction and chaos everywhere.
And Romans 1 says it really well.
So let me read that.
Romans 1 verse 21, for although they knew God,
they neither glorified him as God or gave thanks to him, but their thinking became futile and their foolish hearts were darkened.
There it is, darkened hearts.
Although they claimed to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images made to look like a mortal human and animals and birds and reptiles.
Therefore, God gave them over
in this sinful desires of their hearts to sexual impurity, for the degrading of their bodies with one another, they exchanged the truth about God for a lie, and worshipped and served, created things, rather than the Creator, who is forever praised our men.
Because of this, God gave them over to shameful lusts, even their women exchanged natural sexual relations for unnatural ones.
In the same way, the men also abandoned natural relations with woman and were inflamed with lust for one another.
Men committed shameful acts with other men and received in themselves the due penalty for their error.
Furthermore, just as they did not think it worthwhile to retain the knowledge of God, so God gave them over to a depraved mind, so that they do not, so that they do what ought not to be done.
They have become filled
every kind of wickedness, evil, greed, and depravity.
They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, and malice.
They are gossips, slanderers, guard haters, insolent, arrogant, and boastful.
They invent ways of doing evil.
They disobey their parents, they have no understanding, no fidelity,
No love.
No mercy.
Although they know God's righteous decree that those who do such things deserve death, they not only continue to do these things, but also approve of those who practice them.
That's a problem.
An extreme problem.
an extreme problem that needs a radical solution.
Jesus himself said this about sin.
John 8 verse 34 to 36.
Jesus replied, very truly I tell you, everyone who sins is a slave to sin.
Now a slave has no permanent place in the family, but a son belongs to it forever.
So,
If the sun sets you free, you will be free indeed.
We are slaves to sin.
When you're a slave, your slave master controls you.
You are not free.
This idea that Jesus has ransomed us.
He has paid the price for our freedom, so we are no longer slaves to sin.
So let's think about Jesus' death for a moment.
Galatians 4, verse 47 says, but when the set time had fully come, God sent his son, born of a woman, born under the law to redeem those under the law that we might receive adoption to sonship.
Because you are his sons, God sent the spirit of his son into your hearts
The spirit who calls out Abba Father, so you're no longer a slave, but God's child.
And since you are his child, God has made you also his heir.
The whole point is to reconcile us to God, to restore relationship with God the Father, because God loves us.
Parent loves their child.
They would do anything for him.
God loves you.
He gave his whole life for yours.
It's interesting that Lisa read out of Matthew earlier, because we're going to go back there, which is going to dwell a little while.
And I want you just, in your mind, to just take yourself to the crucifixion.
Think about Jesus, how he suffered, how he bled and how he died.
Matthew 27, and I think I've got the reference wrong here, chapter 27, verse 45 to 46.
and I'll read 50 as well.
From noon until three in the afternoon, darkness came over all the land.
About three in the afternoon, Jesus cried out in a loud voice, Eli, Eli, Lemma Sabatani, which means, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me?
And when Jesus had cried out again,
in a loud voice.
He gave up his spirit.
Surely he took up our pain and bore our suffering.
Yet we considered him punished by God, stricken by him and afflicted.
But he was pierced for our transgressions.
He was crushed for our iniquities.
The punishment that brought us peace was on him.
and by his wounds we are healed.
We all like sheep have gone astray.
Each of us has turned our own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all.
He was oppressed and afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth.
By oppression and judgment he was taken away, yet who of his generation protested?
He was cut off from the land of the living for the transgression of my people.
He was punished.
He was assigned a grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death, though he had done no violence, nor was there any deceit in his mouth.
Yet it was the Lord's will to crush him and cause him to suffer.
And though the Lord makes his life an offering for sin,
He will see his offspring and prolong his days, and the will of the Lord will prosper in his hand.
After he had suffered, he will see the light of life and be satisfied.
By his knowledge, my righteous servant will justify many, and he will bear their iniquities.
Therefore, I have given him a portion among the great, and he will divide the spoils with the strong.
because he poured his life out unto death and was numbered with the transgressors, for he bore the Son of many and made intercession for the transgressors.
A bit later on it says, for a brief moment I abandoned you, but with deep compassion I will bring you back.
In a surge of anger I hid my face from you, for a moment, but with everlasting kindness,
I will have compassion on you," says the Lord, your Redeemer.
To me, this is like the days of Noah.
When I swore that the waters of Noah will never again cover the earth.
So now I have sworn again not to be angry with you, never to rebuke you again.
Though the mountains be shaken and the hills be removed, yet my unfailing love for you will not be shaken.
Nor my covenant of peace be removed, says the Lord.
who has compassion on you.
That was Isaiah 53 and 54.
The ultimate price.
He has redeemed us.
But he didn't stay dead.
God himself is a source of life.
Death has no hold on him.
And in the same way, because we are no longer slaves to sin, death has no hold on you.
Romans 6, verse 5 to 7 says, for we have been united with him in a death like his,
we will certainly also be united with him in a resurrection like his.
For we know that our old self was crucified with him so that the body ruled by sin might be done away with, that we should no longer be slaves to sin because anyone who has died has been set free from sin.
He has plugged us in again to the source of life.
And the source of life is the God who loves us.
So I'm just going to pause and pray for a moment.
Thank you, Lord Jesus, for what you've done.
And we come to you, Lord, knowing that it wasn't anything we could do.
And that in fact, we've messed up most of the time and that we've been slaves to sin.
Forgive us, Lord, in your great mercy, and pull us from death to life by the power of your blood and your infinite kindness.
In Jesus' name, amen.
So now I was asking you
when we've been thinking about these things, to ask the main questions, the big questions.
How do I see myself?
How do I relate to God?
And how do I live day by day?
And in some sense, those are questions for you to answer.
But may I just give you this?
When you see yourself, do you see someone who is loved
more than you could possibly imagine.
And when you relate to the Lord God, he is your father who loves you.
And he made a way so that even though you were enemies with him, you were subject to death, you can now come because that veil is torn and we can boldly
Approach the throne of grace.
And how do we live day by day?
It really is this simple.
Unite yourself with Jesus.
Abide in Him.
Because when you're united with Him, you are pulled from death to life, plugged into the source of life
and then you're able to love.
The love that God has for you, you're able to love others.
This is love.
Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins.
Dear friends, God so loved us
Since God so loved us, we also ought to love one another.
No one has ever seen God, but if we love one another, God lives in us and his love is made complete in us.
This is how we know that we live in him and he and us.
He has given us his spirit.
Now that one final thought, and if you would just extend a little bit more time,
And sometimes we think when we pray the prayer for the Lord Jesus to come into our hearts, we will be changed.
And that is true, but we're an impatient society.
We think the change will be instantaneous.
And the image I've got in my mind is, do you not boot in the beast, that old cartoon where you've got the beast, the epitome of selfishness and malice, and suddenly
He encounters love.
Somebody says that she loves him and the magic rain and the swirling clothes.
And it's a wonderfully exciting moment in the movie.
And he's changed.
I love the way you laugh at me.
It's great.
He changes from a beast to a prince.
And in some sense, Jesus does do that.
He takes our beast like hearts and he makes us royalty.
children of the king.
We're changed from the beast to the prince.
But it doesn't necessarily happen.
Bang, like that.
It's more like, got this picture here.
I don't know if you can see it.
It's a tree growing out of a rock.
God plants his seed in us.
The power over
that that raised crash from the dead is in you.
But it grows in kind of a slow way.
The thing is, even in slow growth, it's still powerful enough to split the rock apart.
So be encouraged.
One two Peter three says, but we do not forget this one thing, dear friends.
With the Lord, a day is like a thousand years and a thousand years is like a day.
The Lord is not slow in keeping His promise as some understand slowness.
Instead, He is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance.
But the day of the Lord will come like a thief.
The heavens will disappear with a roar, the elements will be destroyed by fire, and the earth and everything in it will be laid bare.
Since everything will be destroyed in this way, what kind of people ought we to be?
You ought to live holy and godly lies as you look forward to the day of God and speed it's coming.
So magical transformation might come.
And we look forward to that day when these bodies that are subject to death
are done away with.
But until then, you've got the power of God inside you, inside your very heart, to bring love and light into the darkness of this world, because He is wanting everyone to be reconciled to Him.
So friends, be changed by this truth that God demonstrated His love
In this, while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
Thank you, Lord God, for just how much you love us.
Help us, Lord, to unite with you, to be changed, to be more like you, Lord Jesus, so that we might love those who are lost the same way you love us.
and may your kingdom come, and your will be done in our hearts and in the spaces we inhabit, by the mighty power of your name in your mighty name, Jesus.
We've come to the end of this week's message.
We hope you've been impacted and inspired.
Please keep up to date with everything that's happening by visiting our websites at www.livechurchwarrington.com.